chore(trie): add `gabrocheleau/merkle-patricia-trees-examples` with 5.0.0 compatibility (#2110)
ethereumjs/ethereumjs-monorepo: packages/trie/examples/README.md

```jsx
const { Trie } = require('@ethereumjs/trie') // We import the library required to create a basic Merkle Patricia Tree

var trie = new Trie() // We create an empty Merkle Patricia Tree
console.log('Empty trie root (Bytes): ', trie.root) // The trie root (32 bytes)
```

and then store and retrieve a single key-value pair within it:

```jsx
async function test() {
  await trie.put('testKey', 'testValue') // We update (using "put") the trie with the key-value pair "testKey": "testValue"
  const value = await trie.get('testKey') // We retrieve (using "get") the value at key "testKey"
  console.log('Value (Bytes): ', value)
  console.log('Value (String): ', value.toString())
  console.log('Updated trie root:', trie.root) // The new trie root (32 bytes)
}

test()

// RESULT
Empty trie root (Bytes):  <Buffer 56 e8 1f 17 1b cc 55 a6 ff 83 45 e6 92 c0 f8 6e 5b 48 e0 1b 99 6c ad c0 01 62 2f b5 e3 63 b4 21>
Value (Bytes):  <Buffer 74 65 73 74 56 61 6c 75 65>
Value (String):  testValue
Updated trie root: <Buffer 8e 81 43 67 21 33 dd 5a b0 0d fc 4b 01 14 60 ea 2a 7b 00 d9 10 dc 42 78 94 2a e9 10 5c b6 20 74>
```

> Quite simple. As expected, we can retrieve our value using the key. We can also note that the root hash of the tree has automatically been updated. We'll explore what tree roots stand for later; for now, simply know that each distinct tree will have a distinct root (we can therefore quickly know if two trees are identical by comparing their roots!).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Quite simple. As expected, we can retrieve our value using the key. We can also note that the root hash of the tree has automatically been updated. We'll explore what tree roots stand for later; for now, simply know that each distinct tree will have a distinct root (we can therefore quickly verify if two trees are identical by comparing their roots!).
```

So far, we've seen that our "trees/tries" behave like normal key-value dictionaries. They also produce consistent but seemingly random hashes: the same tree generates the same hash every time.

## 2. A Deeper Look at Individual Nodes

This is all great, but we haven't yet really dived into the inner workings of Merkle Patricia Trees; we've only stored, retrieved and deleted key-value pairs. There are much more interesting mysteries lying ahead of us!

As we said, in a standard "trie", the key is a path we follow step-by-step (i.e. one hexadecimal value at a time) to reach a destination: our value. Now, every time we take a step along that trie, we step on what's called a "node". In Patricia Tries, there are different kinds of nodes:

1. `null` A non-existent node.
2. `branch` A node that links ("branches out") to up to 16 distinct child notes. A branch node can also itself have a value.
3. `leaf` An "end-node" that contains the final part of the path and a value.
4. `extension` A "shortcut" node that provides a partial path and a destination. Extension nodes are used to "bypass" unnecessary nodes when only one valid branch exists for a sequence of nodes.

> For more technical details, [refer to the documentation](https://github.com/ethereum/wiki/wiki/Patricia-Tree)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more technical details, [refer to the documentation](https://ethereum.org/en/developers/docs/data-structures-and-encoding/patricia-merkle-trie/)
```

### The Encoded Path in Leaf and Extension Nodes

We saw in one of our previous examples that the individual branches were in fact pointing to leaf nodes:

```jsx
// <--path-->  <------------- value ----------------->
[ <Buffer 30>, <Buffer 74 65 73 74 56 61 6c 75 65 30> ] // leaf node down the path of "testKey0"
[ <Buffer 31>, <Buffer 74 65 73 74 56 61 6c 75 65 41> ] // leaf node down the path of "testKeyA"
```

As we said above, leaf nodes are arrays that contain two items: `[ remainingPath, value ]`. We can see in the code above that the "remainingPath" of our first leaf node is `<30>`, while the second is `<31>`. What does this mean?

> The first hex character `3` indicates whether the node is a leaf node, or an extension node (this is to prevent ambiguity, as both nodes have a similar 2-item structure). This first hex character also indicates whether or not the remaining path is of "odd" or "even" length (required to write complete bytes: this indicates if the first hex character is appended with a `0` ).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first hex character `3` indicates whether the node is a leaf node, or an extension node (this is to prevent ambiguity, as both nodes have a similar 2-item structure). This first hex character also indicates whether or not the remaining path is of "odd" or "even" length (required to write complete bytes: this indicates if the first hex character is appended with a `0`).
```

await trie.put(Buffer.from('testKey000A'), Buffer.from('testValueA'))

var node1 = await trie.findPath(Buffer.from('testKey')) // Looking up our branch node
console.log(node1.node) // The branch node

// RESULT

BranchNode {
  _branches: [
    <Buffer >,
    <Buffer >,
    <Buffer >,
    <Buffer 39 1d 48 30 de 00 87 57 46 98 4c 4f d3 ef 5a 0c f7 ca 7b 40 f9 c2 8a ce e2 ba 22 49 84 41 8f 6b>,
    <Buffer >,
    <Buffer >,
    <Buffer >,
    <Buffer >,
    <Buffer >,
    <Buffer >,
    <Buffer >,
    <Buffer >,
    <Buffer >,
    <Buffer >,
    <Buffer >,
    <Buffer >
  ],
  _value: <Buffer 74 65 73 74 56 61 6c 75 65>
}
```

As we should expect, there is a branch at index `3`. The branch contains a hash that we can use to lookup the child node:

```jsx
 var node2 = await trie.lookupNode(Buffer.from(node1.node._branches[3])) // Looking up the child node from its hash (using lookupNode)
 console.log(node2) // An extension node!

// RESULT
ExtensionNode {
  _nibbles: [ 0, 3, 0, 3, 0 ],
  _value: <Buffer 70 b3 d0 20 ad 85 8f d6 00 28 a4 23 e9 8f 1d 99 c5 37 cd b9 1f 27 49 16 40 06 6f ea c7 9c 2f 72>
}
```

Awesome! An extension node!

> You might have noticed that this child node is a "hash", while in the previous examples, it was the leaf node itself. This is simply because of the way nodes are stored in branch nodes. If the [Recursive Length Prefix](https://github.com/ethereum/wiki/wiki/RLP) (RLP) encoding of the child node is less than 32 bytes, the node is stored directly. However, if the RLP encoding is equal to or longer than 32 bytes, a hash of the node is stored in the branch node, which can be used to lookup the child node directly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You might have noticed that this child node is a "hash", while in the previous examples, it was the leaf node itself. This is simply because of the way nodes are stored in branch nodes. If the [Recursive Length Prefix](https://ethereum.org/en/developers/docs/data-structures-and-encoding/rlp) (RLP) encoding of the child node is less than 32 bytes, the node is stored directly. However, if the RLP encoding is equal to or longer than 32 bytes, a hash of the node is stored in the branch node, which can be used to lookup the child node directly.
```

<Buffer 74 65 73 74 4b 65 79 30 30 30 41>
```

The first part of the path ("testKey" = `<74 65 73 74 4b 65 79>`) led us to the branch node. Next, taking the branch at index `3` (for hex value `<3>`) led us to our extension node, which automatically leads us down the path `[ 0, 3, 0, 3, 0 ]`. Using only two nodes (branch + extension), we are therefore able to "shortcut" the whole `<30 30 30>` part of the path! With a standard trie, this would have required 6 successive branch nodes!

Again, the value of the extension node leads us down to another node... can you guess what it will be?

```jsx
var node3 = await trie.lookupNode(Buffer.from(node2._value))
  console.log(node3)

// RESULT
BranchNode {
  _branches: [
    <Buffer >,
    <Buffer >,
    <Buffer >,
    [ <Buffer 31>, <Buffer 74 65 73 74 56 61 6c 75 65 31> ],
    [ <Buffer 31>, <Buffer 74 65 73 74 56 61 6c 75 65 41> ],
    <Buffer >,
    <Buffer >,
    <Buffer >,
    <Buffer >,
    <Buffer >,
    <Buffer >,
    <Buffer >,
    <Buffer >,
    <Buffer >,
    <Buffer >,
    <Buffer >
  ],
  _value: <Buffer >
}
```

Another branch node, itself containing two leaf nodes at indexes `3` and `4`, just like in our previous example!

> That's all for the four types of nodes. Congratulations on making it this far: the hardest part of Merkle Patricia Trees is now behind us! Before going further, I encourage you to play with the examples and build your nodes! Try to create and verify one of each type by yourself. If you'd like, you can also go through [this other example](https://github.com/ethereum/wiki/wiki/Patricia-Tree#example-trie). It presents the same concepts from a slightly different angle.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That's all for the four types of nodes. Congratulations on making it this far: the hardest part of Merkle Patricia Trees is now behind us! Before going further, I encourage you to play with the examples and build your nodes! Try to create and verify one of each type by yourself. If you'd like, you can also go through [this other example](https://ethereum.org/en/developers/docs/data-structures-and-encoding/patricia-merkle-trie/#example-trie). It presents the same concepts from a slightly different angle.
```

## 3. Generating and Verifying Hashes

> We're almost there! The only thing we haven't covered is the "Merkle" part of the Merkle Patricia Trees. As you may know, Merkle trees are hash trees that allow us to efficiently verify information. In the context of blockchains, Merkle Trees allow us to answer questions such as "Has this transaction been confirmed?".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We're almost there! The only thing we haven't covered is the "Merkle" part of the Merkle Patricia Trees. As you may know, Merkle trees are hash trees that allow us to efficiently verify information. In the context of blockchains, Merkle Trees allow us to answer questions such as "Has this transaction been included in this block?".
```

In Ethereum's Merkle Patricia Trees, each node is referenced to by its hash. Note that this hash also can be referred to as a "key", which can be confusing. **Note that the hash is not the same as the path we take when going down the trie**.

You can think of paths as a sequence of instructions for a given input, something like "_go down branch #3 → go down this extension → go down branch #8 → you have arrived at your destination: a leaf_". Hashes, on the other hand, act as unique identifiers for each node and are generated in a way that allows the verification of data.

So, how is are hashes calculated in Ethereum?

> 1. First, all values from the node are serialized using the [Recursive Length Prefix encoding function](https://github.com/ethereum/wiki/wiki/RLP).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. First, all values from the node are serialized using the [Recursive Length Prefix encoding function](https://ethereum.org/en/developers/docs/data-structures-and-encoding/rlp).
```

2. Then, a hash function (keccak256) is applied to the serialized data. This outputs a 32-bytes hash.

### 3a. Generating a hash

We saw in our example above that our extension node was referenced to by its hash. In this example, we'll try to manually compute its hash from its value. First, we look at the extension node's hash and its value.

```jsx
var node1 = await trie.findPath(Buffer.from('testKey'))
console.log('Extension node hash: ', node1.node._branches[3])

var node2 = await trie.lookupNode(Buffer.from(node1.node._branches[3]))
console.log('Value of extension node: ', node2)

// RESULT
Extension node hash:  <Buffer 39 1d 48 30 de 00 87 57 46 98 4c 4f d3 ef 5a 0c f7 ca 7b 40 f9 c2 8a ce e2 ba 22 49 84 41 8f 6b>

Value of extension node:  ExtensionNode {
  _nibbles: [ 0, 3, 0, 3, 0 ],
  _value: <Buffer 70 b3 d0 20 ad 85 8f d6 00 28 a4 23 e9 8f 1d 99 c5 37 cd b9 1f 27 49 16 40 06 6f ea c7 9c 2f 72>
}
```

> As we learned, we should first use the [Recursive Length Prefix encoding function](https://github.com/ethereum/wiki/wiki/RLP) on the node to serialize the values of the extension node. RLP-encoding the "raw" version (as an array of bytes) of our node gives us:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As we learned, we should first use the [Recursive Length Prefix encoding function](https://ethereum.org/en/developers/docs/data-structures-and-encoding/rlp) on the node to serialize the values of the extension node. RLP-encoding the "raw" version (as an array of bytes) of our node gives us:
```
